The `CTP_Nov2013` compiler is required due to the use of **C++11/14** features. You can [download the compiler add-on here](http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=41151).

There are a number of NuGet packages required to compile. Several inject source code into the build, others are required for resolving references and linking. I have the NuGet references to my local (relative) NuGet repo embedded in the project files. Since you don't have the packages in that location NuGet will produce errors.

After you pull down the referenced packages you will still have one set of issues (which I am working on). In our set of dependencies there are four packages that reference a compiled library where the package does not have a version compiled for `CTP_Nov2013` compiler. This causes linkage to fail. That can be hacked around, but the result (based on my testing) is a runtime failure when the library is entered. I have determined that this is because the libraries are compiled for `VC100` (VS2010) and `VC110` (VS2012), which should not be compatible with `VC120` (VS2013). I am in the process of building NuGet packages for all dependencies as `VC120`, since this will link properly with CTP_Nov2013.

The packages that I've completed are visible [here](http://www.nuget.org/profiles/evoskuil/), specifically the ones ending in **_vc120**. There are four remaining (to support **libbitcoin**, **libwallet**, **obelisk** and **sx**): **cURL**, **libssh2**, **openssl** and **zlib**. Once those are complete I will package the libbitcoin libs for NuGet as well. Ultimately I would like to produce C# bindings for the libs.
